Review of the message forwarding documentation (#7876)
Particular/docs.particular.net: nservicebus/messaging/forwarding.md

title: Message forwarding
summary: Describes how to set up message forwarding
component: Core
reviewed: 2025-10-16
related:
 - nservicebus/operations/auditing
---

Use this feature to forward successfully processed messages from an endpoint to a specific destination endpoint for additional processing. Forwarding messages is particularly useful in complex upgrade scenarios when the old version and new version of a particular endpoint are running side-by-side.

## Forwarding a message from the handler

Individual messages can be forwarded directly from the handler:

snippet: ForwardingMessageFromHandler

> [!WARNING]

> > Forwarding should not be used to abort message processing. Messages cannot be forwarded to the `error` queue as the required metadata for failed messages would not be present in the forwarded message's metadata.  Attempting to use forwarding as a mechanism to abort processing can result in partial updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Forwarding should not be used to abort message processing. Messages cannot be forwarded to the `error` queue as the required metadata for failed messages would not be present in the forwarded message's metadata. Attempting to use forwarding as a mechanism to abort processing can result in partial updates.
```

> 
> To abort processing, throw an exception in the message handler. This ensures that no [ghost messages](/nservicebus/concepts/glossary.md#ghost-message) are transmitted and any transactional state changes are rolled back.
> 
> To prevent unnecessary retries, declare an [unrecoverable exception](/nservicebus/recoverability/#unrecoverable-exceptions) or create a [custom recoverability policy](/nservicebus/recoverability/custom-recoverability-policy.md).

## Auditing vs. Forwarding

[Auditing](/nservicebus/operations/auditing.md) and Forwarding are very similar. Both send a copy of the processed message to another queue. The main difference is the intended usage scenarios.

Auditing happens at the endpoint level, forwarding is an explicit per message operation from your handler.

> Auditing is used for collecting information on what is happening in the system by a monitoring system, for instance ServiceControl Audits. The audited message is enriched with additional [information regarding the processing of it](/nservicebus/operations/auditing.md#message-headers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auditing is used for collecting information about what is happening in the system for monitoring purposes. Data is collected at the endpoint level and used in a monitoring system like ServiceControl Audits. An audit message is enriched with additional [information regarding its processing](/nservicebus/operations/auditing.md#message-headers). This is native functionality offered by the NServiceBus platform.

Message forwarding is an explicit per-message operation from your handler, enabling additional custom processing for your system needs.
```
